GitHub DS Plugin docs (#292)
grafana/github-datasource: docs/sources/setup/datasource.md

---

> title: 'Configuring data source'
> menuTitle: Configure data source
> description: Configure the GitHub data source plugin to authenticate to GitHub
> keywords:
>   - data source
>   - github
>   - github repository
>   - API
> labels:
>   products:
>     - oss
>     - enterprise
>     - cloud
> weight: 103
> ---
> 
> # Configure data source

Reviewer: The `title` and first heading should match for SEO and should include product names.

The `menuTitle` can omit the product name because it's implied by the website context.

```suggestion
title: Configure the GitHub data source plugin for Grafana
menuTitle: Configure
description: Configure the GitHub data source plugin to authenticate to GitHub
keywords:
  - data source
  - github
  - github repository
  - API
labels:
  products:
    - oss
    - enterprise
    - cloud
weight: 103
---

# Configure the GitHub data source plugin for Grafana
```

1. After creating the **personal access token** in GitHub, navigate into Grafana and click on the menu option on the top left.

1. Browse to the **Connections** menu and then click on the **Data sources**.

1. Click on the GitHub data source plugin which you have installed.

1. Go to its settings tab and at the bottom, you will find the **Connection** section.

1. Paste the personal access token.
   ![Configuring API Token](/media/docs/grafana/data-sources/github/github-plugin-confg-token.png)

1. Click **Save & Test** button and you should see a confirmation dialog box that says "Data source is working".

## For GitHub Enterprise

> If you using the GitHub Enterprise, then select the **Enterprise** option inside the **Additional Settings** section (as show in the image of the **step 4** described above) and paste the URL of your GitHub Enterprise.

Reviewer: Can we make this an optional step within the numbered steps. Then you won't have to worry about the "step 4" part going out of sync and a user won't have to see this heading to know how to configure the GitHub Enterprise URL.

Author: done, please review

{{< admonition type="tip" >}}
If you see errors, check the Grafana logs for troubleshooting.
{{< /admonition >}}

{{< admonition type="note" >}}

> If you are using GitHub OAuth on Grafana, then it is not possible that the users to make requests with their individual GitHub accounts instead of a shared `access_token`. Please refer to [this issue](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/issues/26023) in the Grafana project.

Reviewer: I'm not sure it's worth linking to the issue because it's closed.

```suggestion
It's not yet possible to use the GitHub OAuth 2.0 for authenticating Grafana users to make requests with their individual GitHub accounts instead of the data source personal access token.
```
